---
layout: post
title: "T-minus: 20 days"
date: 2024-10-20
categories: blog
author: Kori Rogers
tags: none
---
Today, we play happy music & we go on a run at ~3pm. Ok, I'm going to list all the things I want to do today, and I will try to bucket them in three categories for today, and if not possible I will put the overflow into tomorrow's list. In fact, I like the idea of planning two days at a time, that way there is a sense of progression. 

#### First, here's a quick assessment of where we are:
- We are sort of still in this exploratory phase where we are figuring out how we want to approach this project from a technical perspective. This involves reading papers and coming up with ideas for implementation. 
- The next natural step is to come up with a thorough technical development plan for the next 20 days, including how we will process and show results. 
- In fact, ideally we finish in 14 days, leaving 6 days for users to try our product. 

#### Listing all my to do's for next two days:
- (***) Figure out housing till December (Budget: $2400)
- (**) Launch ClickSolve
- (**) Begin Tik Tok campaign for ClickSolve (Assign: $1000 for marketing)
- (**) Reach out to Shu to get ideas on what we are currently working on 
- (*) Add to Anki (AI engineering stuff)
- (**) PhD Stuff, making sure I'm on track for submission 
- (***) First draft of YC Application 
- (***) Fork Jupyter Notebook for our front-end, in such a way that is compliant with their license 
- (***) Plan out our architecture in full Read more on DPSy and RAG tech

*Note: Prototype with Colab...*


#### Today:
##### Goal 0: (until 11.30am) This blog post. 
Good for framing my thoughts. 

##### Goal 1: (11.30am-3pm) AutoRAND

Spend 11.30am-12pm think
- It would be really fun to fork Jupyter Notebook because I can do the 'Cursor for md' concept that I am obsessing over. I need to (1) figure out whether the text bit is in md, and (2) figure out whether we will fork the web version or the desktop version. 
- Found a (YC company)[https://github.com/pretzelai/pretzelai] that forked Jupyter Notebook, and basically added Cursor-like features. Jupyer Notebook is extremely permissive (BSD-3), the YC company is open-source and chose to license under AGPL license to prevent copy-cats. 
- I don't really want to do what they are just doing. Just another SaaS product... Our vision is to accelerate R&D with AI. 


Ok, I find myself trying to find a completely different path out of what we are doing. 

##### Goal 2: (4pm-5.30pm) Launch ClickSolve; Begin Tik Tok campaign. List 10 influencers, reach out to them. 

##### Goal 3: (5.30pm-6.30pm) Housing. 

##### Other:
3pm: Go on a run. Find a Holland & Barrett to buy supplements. 
6.45pm: Highton's for dinner
11pm: L-Theanine + Read book. 

#### Tomorrow:
Goal 1: 

Goal 2: 

Goal 3: 

[back]({{ site.url }})