---
layout: post
title: "Hard Ideas"
date: 2024-10-21
categories: blog
author: Kori Rogers
tags: none
---
Write a post on hard ideas (spacex, tesla, northwood, rainmaker)

This may be too loose a categorisation, but I've noticed an awe-inspiring class of company that to me, deserve to be written about. Roughly, I'd describe them as companies that are tackling 'historical megaprojects'. 

Here's what a megaproject is according to Wikipedia: 
{insert image here}

There are far too many fascinating examples to list from the Wikipedia page including, but not limited to: the International Space Station ($150B), Airbus A380 ($25B), y. I want to pay particular attention to one example: The Global Positioning System (GPS). 

Why? (1) The logo is unbelievably cool (shown below), (2) I think it's potentially overlooked as an awesomely impactful megaproject. 

xxx write a little bit about the GPS

The thing about megaprojects is that they are so massive in ambition and scale that they often fall under the purview of governments. Importantly, this isn't exclusively the case, and when a private company takes on a megaproject- it's super fucking cool. Particularly because the company has to overcome the additional constraint of ensuring the megaproject is profitable. 

The canonical example is that of SpaceX, too obvious to linger on, but worth mentioning is that it's now basically a conglemerate of megaprojects now- from rockets, to sattelite constellations and beyond. SpaceX has single-handedly enabled the private space industry, and now we see new companies working on space megaprojects themselves. For instance, here's one that's trying to build the [first commerical space station](https://www.vastspace.com/updates/vast-announces-the-haven-1-and-vast-1-human-spaceflight-mission-launched-by-spacex-on-a-dragon-spacecraft). As I said, commercialisation really matters for companies taking on megaprojects, and this company plans to do that through space tourism it seems, which to my admittedly unrigorous evaluation, seems like a good-but-not-great bet [1], given how Blue Origin & Virgin Galactic went with that route while SpaceX took a different direction of bidding on NASA missions. It's clear how that's turned out so far. Again, not rigorous, but it would seem to me that there are superior ways of monetising a space station, [Varda's approach](https://www.varda.com/) of running experiments in micro-gravity seems more impactful to me. 

Ok, I'm at risk of making this a space post. I should highlight that I speak of companies taking on 'historical megaprojects', where the modifier 'historical' is key. What I mean to say is that, with respect to this essay, the class of companies that interest me, aren't those that are deep-tech projects tackling technical feats that are yet to be achieved, but rather those that have previously been tackled by governments or incumbents, but are now being re-envisioned by startups. Again, SpaceX is the canonical example, they didn't invent the market for space rockets per se, but they did find a way to make rockets way cheaper to build by vertically integrating. Even the concept of satellite constellations to provide broadband has been done before [2]. Of course that isn't to say that SpaceX haven't invented new things, re-usable rockets are a marvel. What's key is that they disrupted an existing market and beat an incumbent (whether a government organisation or a private company) at building a megaproject- in this case Boeing + NASA [3]. 

I want to mention that inventing technologies doesn't preclude a company from being what I consider a historical megastructure company. This is murky, but I think too much technical invention does preclude you, there is this perfect mix of . I think basically the technical components have to already be in place in the world and have to be mixed together at the right time (reference the not boring post) (this was tesla)

They disrupted Boeing. 

As I write this essay, I suppose what really matters with 'historical megaprojects' is to tackle an existing market and beat an incumbent (whether a government organisation or a private company) at building a megaproject. 

Tesla is a murkier example, because they did invent the first electric car.

There are a couple companies out there that fit this description. First is Rainmaker, they are building drone swarms for cloud seeding. The cloud-seeding/weather modification industry already exists, and has been the purview of governments for decades (?). It's particularly well developed and actively practised in China, and seemingly less-so in the US. To me, Rainmaker fits the bill perfectly- they are using a new technology (drones) to tackle an existing market (cloud seeding) that's previously been tackled by government entities. It's also just **different**, it feels n=1. 

Northwood space, which I've written about before, is building minutarised ground stations to match the exponentially increasing data load being sent to earth by a rapdily increasing number of sattelites in Earth's orbit. When was the last time you've heard of a startup building ground stations? Again it's n=1. 

Tesla fits the bill to me. I don't know if all this is too murky. 

Some commonailities here include the fact these are all industrial.hardware projects.  



[1] Besides the fact you'd have to split the cost with the launch provider, isn't there more impactful things you can do with a space station? 
[2] A sweeping statement I am sure, there are many innovations in SpaceX- but the gestalt of my argument stands
[3] SpaceX disrupted both because, I believe, in the past Boeing would build the rockets and NASA would pilot them, whereas SpaceX does both. 
 
[back]({{ site.url }})