---
layout: post
title: "The Walk (Real Talk)"
date: 2024-10-20
categories: blog
author: Kori Rogers
tags: none
---
My walk to me revealed many things. 

One that I was caricaturing what it meant to be an entrepreneur- I took the phrase 'eating glass and staring into the abyss' literally, and chose to be moody and down. In my head, if I didn't feel that way, I was doing it wrong. Don't play the part. 

You can do this with a smile on your face. Enthusiasm is the most important quality you can have.

They say to be an entrepreneur you have to be resilent. Actually, everyone is resilient. If you're alive right now and you haven't chosen to kill yourself, you're resilient. Don't pretend it's some virtue exclusive to entrepreneurs. 

"you think, aw, you haven't given up on your dream of building a startup, you're resilient" but if you do it with a frown and it's literally causing you depression- then my friend, can you really call that resilient?

It means nothing to be resilient, if you're doing your startup What's important is to be resiliant + a smile on your face. enthusiasm is key. 

Next 20 days is a sprint. Means xh a day of work, 3 highlights a day. Write a blog post a day to track your work. Push hard. Run everyday. 20 days is nothing. 

Doing a day 67% isn't doing a full day half-heartedly, its doing 2 out of your 3 pomodoros at full intensity. Do everything with intensity and with a smile on your face. 

read at night. run. write daily. 

that is resilience. do not be weak, you are choosing to be this way, change that. choose strength, enthusiasm, intensity. 

look for a house in kilburn. just be effective, complete tasks within the time you allot the. 
[back]({{ site.url }})