---
layout: post
title: "Hardware Input, Software Output (aka Mixware)"
date: 2024-10-20
categories: blog
author: Kori Rogers
tags: none
---
There is a class of company that I find extremely fascinating- those that require hardware inputs to deliver software outputs. This class of company is the focus of this post. 

The example that really captures today's zeitgeist if of course AI. It's no coincidence that talk about AGI & the intelligence explosion often coincides with discussions of the next industrial revolution. Plenty has already been written about how: ["AI is a massive industrial process: each new model requires a giant new cluster, soon giant new power plants, and eventually giant new chip fabs."](https://situational-awareness.ai/racing-to-the-trillion-dollar-cluster/)

In other words, building an AI model is a massive industrial process in the input only for the output to be a large file with numbers [1], aka: *hardware input, software output.*

In some sense, it doesn't feel like natural- a massive industrial process feels like it should deliver a massive industrial product, that's certainly how it's worked in the past. Big factories ought to make cars, robots, and airplanes; now we talk of industrial factories making... software?

We'll end up seeing it in the cost structure too, Sam Altman [has said](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FVRHTWWEIz4&list=PPSV&ab_channel=HarvardBusinessSchool): "The most important thing to me is to drive techno-abundance from those two key inputs [AI & energy]... What I didn't realise and got totally lucky with is how much they are the same problem. Eventually, the cost of intellgience should approximate the cost of energy... Energy will remain the constraint. I expect if we fast-forward many years, energy is the biggest constraint on the cost of AI and the ability to continue progress." [2]

In other words, AI challenges (the world of bits) asymptote towards challenges in the hardware (the world of atoms). Now, I would be remiss not to mention that OpenAI isn't completely vertically integrated, they certainly focus on the software side of the equation and offload the hardware side to Microsoft: OpenAI uses Azure as their primary cloud provider, and Azure of course relies on Nvidia's GPUs. Yet, it wouldn't be a surprise to me if OpenAI's biggest headaches often involves the hardware side of the equation.

What's exciting is that the idea of hardware inputs, software outputs isn't only limited to AI (I hereby coin the term **mixware** to describe such businesses). Cloud providers are a fantastic example- they require massive amounts of hardware (data centers full of servers and networking hardware) to deliver software services (storage, computing, networking). Indeed, cloud is the business of taking IT infrastructure (hardware) and providing it's software analogue, virtualised IT infrastructure (software) -as-a-service. In fact, this to me is what makes it the canonical example of mixware, because the transformation from hardware to software here is so one-to-one, as opposed to the AI example which is more of a drastic transformation.

Another example of a great mixware business is Google Maps. Google Maps is a massive database of roads, buildings, and other geographic features collected from satellite imagery (which means sending satellites up to space) & from a gazillion photos requiring an ungodly amount of labour hours of people driving around taking photographs of local infrastructure. All this hardware input is transformed into a marvel of a product that I (and probably you) use every day. 

When mixware is done right, it seems to benefit from the best of hardware and software. Hardware makes the business a lot more defensible and software makes it scalable and drops distribution costs to near zero. That isn't to say it's low hanging fruit- as the saying goes, 'hardware is... hard' so it's not easy to do, and I don't know if there are many mixware opportunities out there at any one given point in time- it requires the perfect alignment of some unique capability that hardware can enable that specifically manifests as some software output. This also means that I think it often starts with some innovation in the hardware-side. 

It's important to note- mixware is not hardware + software in the output, like the iPhone or Tesla cars, it's specifically the transformation of hardware inputs into software outputs. My intuition is that this is a rare type of business- if you find one, jump into it hard. 

One example of a mixware business that is vertically integrated is SpaceX's Starlink, which is a vast satellite constellation that provides internet services. It's just such an insanely good business and deserves to be mentioned as one of the best kinds of mixware businesses out there- only made possible by a sequence of incredibly great hardware innovations, from the rockets to the satellites, to result in a great software output- internet access. I should reiterate, my intuition is that the great mixware businesses all do something spectacular in the hardware-side that enable some specific capability that can only can be expressed in the world of software. 

So, what are the mixware opportunities out there today? One that comes to mind, and the extent to which it is totally novel is still a question in my mind, and I don't know if it's a mixware business at all as they may stay in the world of hardware, is [Northwood Space](https://www.northwoodspace.io/). Northwood Space is working on building ground stations which connect to satellites in space, at what seems to be a very well-reasoned approach to matching the explosion in satellites being added to the Earth's orbit. My cursory understanding is that their innovation is to build many small groundstations as opposed to fewer large ones to improve satellite connectivity with what is possible an exponentially increasing load over time. So, what is the mixware opportunity here? Well, they could take on Amazon head-on, who themselves build groundstations as part of their [ground station-as-a-service](https://aws.amazon.com/ground-station/#:~:text=AWS%20Ground%20Station%20provides%20a,your%20own%20satellite%20ground%20stations.) offering in AWS, and virtualise access to their ground stations.

I would love to hear other examples of mixware businesses out there- the strangeness of hardware inputs and software inputs, the fact that AI (AGI?) and all future AI companies are some degree-of-seperation from mixware businesses, the fact that it just seems like such a strong business model, is all so very interesting to me. 

[1] Of course, it's a very useful file of large numbers.  
[2] I must of course point out that just because, in the future, the biggest bottleneck to AI is energy, that doesn't mean it's the biggest bottleneck now. Even OpenAI has limited manpower of extremely smart researchers, there's also the bottleneck of compute, and capital and so on.
 
[back]({{ site.url }})